# 1.2 Check Permutation

## Description
Given two strings, write a method to decide if one is a permutation of the other.

## Approach 1: Using Sorting

### Explanantion
If two strings are permutations, then we know they have the same characters, but in different order. Therefore, sorting the strings will put the characters from two permutations in the same order. We just need to compare the sorted versions of the strings. 

### Python Code

```python
def checkPermutation(s, t):
    return (''.join(sorted(s)) == ''.join(sorted(t)))
s = "god"
t = "dog"
result = checkPermutation(s, t)
print(result)
```
### Complexity
#### Time Complexity:

- O(n log n) due to the sorting of the strings.
#### Space Complexity:

- O(n), as it involves:
    - The sorting operation which influences the space complexity.
    -  In the worst case due to the extra space required by Timsort for temporary storage during sorting. However, constant factors in other operations can be considered negligible compared to the linear space used by sorting.
## Approach 2: By using Counter method

### Explanantion
We can also use the definition of a permutation - two words with the same character counts-to implement this algorithm. We simply count how many times each character appears. Then, afterwards, we compare the two arrays.  
In the code given below, we created a frequency table, using **Counter** method, for each string and then comparing them. It returns true if both the frequency tables are *true* else it returns *false*. 

### Python Code

```python
def checkPermutation(s, t):
    count_s = Counter(s)
    count_t = Counter(t)
    return count_s == count_t

result = checkPermutation(s, t)
print(result)
```

### Complexity
#### Time Complexity:

-  **O(n)**, where n is the length of the longer string.
    - **Creating Counter objects:** **O(n)** (iterating through each character once).
    - **Comparing dictionaries: O(n)** (worst-case scenario, iterating through all key-value pairs).
- The time complexity is considered linear because the operations scale linearly with the input size.
#### Space Complexity:

- The space complexity is also **O(n)**.
    - **Creating Counter objects: O(n)** (storing character frequencies in a dictionary)
- The space used scales linearly with the input size due to the dictionaries holding character counts.
