# 6.4 Ants on a Triangle 

## Problem Description
There are the ants on different vertices of a triangle. What is the probability of collision (between any two or all of them) if they start walking on the sides 
of the triangle? Assume that each ant randomly picks a direction, with either direction being equally likely to be chosen, and that they walk at the same speed. 

Similarly, find the probability of collision with n ants on an n-vertex polygon.

## SOLUTION

The ants will collide if any of them are moving towards each other. So, the only way that they won't collide is if they are all moving in the same direction 
(clockwise or counterclockwise). We can compute this probability and work backwards from there. 

Since each ant can move in two directions, and there are three ants, the probability is:

- $`P(clockwise) = (1/2)^3`$

- $`P(counter clockwise) = (1/2)^3`$

- $`P(same direction) = (1/2)^3 + (1/2)^3 = 1/4`$

The probability of collision is therefore the probability of the ants not moving in the same direction:

- $`P(collision) = 1 - P(same direction) = 1 - 1/4 = 3/4`$

**To generalize this to an n-vertex polygon:** there are still only two ways in which the ants can move to avoid a collision, but thes are $`2^n`$ ways they can move in total. Therefore, in general,
probability of collision is:

- $`P(clockwise) = (1/2)^n`$

- $`P(counter clockwise) = (1/2)^n`$

- $`P(same direction) = 2(1/2)^n = (1/2)^{n-1}`$

- $`P(collision) = 1 - P(same direction) = 1 - (1/2)^{n-1}`$
